[NEW RULE] - ARIA required accessible names - aria-required-accessible-name-gp8n89 (#2190)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: _rules/aria-required-accessible-name-gp8n89.md

  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context) (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
  wcag20:2.4.9: # Link Purpose (Link Only) (AAA)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
  wcag20:4.1.2: # Name, Role, Value (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned an ARIA role corresponding to a user interface component necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
input_aspects:
  - Accessibility Tree
  - CSS styling
  - DOM Tree
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Giacomo Petri
---

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][] and has a [semantic role][] that has the "Accessible Name Required: True" [characteristic][], unless the element has a [explicit][explicit semantic role] presentational role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][] and has a [semantic role][] that has the "Accessible Name Required: True" [characteristic][], unless the element has an [explicit][explicit semantic role] presentational role.
```

## Background

Although this ARIA rule mandates authors to ensure an [accessible name][] for each [HTML or SVG element][] [included in the accessibility tree][] and possessing a [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] [semantic role][] requiring an [accessible name][], it does not automatically constitute a WCAG accessibility violation.

For instance, consider a `search` landmark comprising an element with the `form` role, a search label, a search input, and a search submit button. According to ARIA specifications, the `searchbox` role necessitate an [accessible name][]. However, adhering strictly to this rule may lead to repetitive announcements by assistive technologies like screen readers, overwhelming users. Therefore, while this might technically breach ARIA specs, it does not necessarily translate to a violation of WCAG accessibility standards.

> Elements subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] are not part of this rule and must be tested separately.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what to make of this.  Does this affect the applicability?  If so, does it mean that the applicability should be changed to this: 

"... unless the element has a [explicit][explicit semantic role] presentational role which is not to be ignored according to [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][]".

?

edit: I just read Inapplicable Example 3, and it seems to contradict my interpretation in my preceding paragraph.  Regardless: I get the impression that confliction resolution is a factor in the applicability.  If that's true, then that fact should be documented in the applicabililty, not just in the background or examples.  

edit number 2: I find is strange that conflict resolution should be a factor in the applicability.  Wouldn't it be cleaner to make it not so?

edit number 3: I read some old resolved comments between you and Jean-Yves, and I think I get it now.  You really do want to make any element with role="none" and which is subject to conflict resolution inapplicable. That's fine, but I think we can help future confused readers like myself.  May I suggest changing this line in the background: 

"Elements subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] are not part of this rule and must be tested separately."

to this:

"Any element subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] is inapplicable under this rule, and must be tested separately.  Such an element is inapplicable because it has an [explicit][explicit semantic role] presentational role - even though that presentational role will be ignored by user agents, as a result of conflict resolution."

I don't think we use the term "computed role" around here, but maybe we should consider it at some point.

Author: I'm not sure I'm recalling it exactly, but the idea, especially in light of my proposal for a [new rule checking for presentational roles conflict](https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/2195), was to encourage authors to address the presentational roles conflict issue first, rather than simply fixing the name. Once the original error is resolved, next steps can be considered.

I like your rewording suggestion and will apply it.

> Elements subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] are not part of this rule and must be tested separately.

Author: ```suggestion
Any element subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] is inapplicable under this rule, and must be tested separately. Such an element is inapplicable because it has an [explicit][explicit semantic role] presentational role - even though that presentational role will be ignored by user agents, as a result of conflict resolution.
```

```html
<div role="button" value="test"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 7

This `div` element with role `button` is not [visible][], but is still [included in the accessibility tree][]. It doesn't have an [accessible name][], therefore failing the rule.

```html
<div role="button" style="position: absolute; left: -9999px" tabindex="0"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 8

The `div` element with role `link` has an empty [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="location.href='https://act-rules.github.io/'"></div>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

This `div` element is not [included in the accessibility tree][], hence its [semantic role][] is not relevant.

```html
<div role="button" style="display:none;"></div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This `div` element has an [semantic role][] of `group`, which does not require an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="group">Some content</div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

This `button` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `none`, leading to a conflict resolved by [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][], which is not covered by this rule.

```html

> <button role="none">submit</button>

Reviewer 2: I gather there are really two reasons why this button does not have a "computed" role of none: 1) confliction resolution's "element is focusable" clause, and 2) the fact that https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aria/#el-button , third column, does not contain the words "Any role".  If I'm right about that, it means that this example is a little weirder than I think you meant it to be.  But maybe it doesn't matter - I'll wait to see the outcome of my other comment on conflict resolution.

Author: Answered your question above. This example is just to clarify is not in scope for this rule.

```html
<div role="button"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This `button` element with an [implicit semantic role] of `button` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<button></button>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `div` element with role `img` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="img">
  <span aria-hidden="true">★★★★★</span>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 4

The `div` element with role `checkbox` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0"></div>
<div>I agree with terms and conditions</div>
```

#### Failed Example 5

The `dialog` role accepts an [accessible name][] only from the author and not from its content. Therefore, the `div` element with role `dialog` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="dialog" aria-modal="true" tabindex="-1">
  <h1>Terms</h1>
  <p>These are our terms.</p>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 6

The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] due to the `display: none` CSS property set to its content.

```html
  <div role="heading" aria-level="1"><span style="display: none">Terms</span></div>
```

#### Failed Example 7

> The `button` element has an empty [accessible name][] given by its `aria-labelledby` attribute.

Reviewer 3: I know it's mentioned in the background, but do we need to have a failed example where all major browsers ignore the accessible name computation rules and do provide the button with an accessible name?

Author: acc name computation is changes and now says:

> LabelledBy: Otherwise, if the current node has an aria-labelledby [attribute](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-attribute) that contains at least one valid IDREF, and the current node is not already part of an ongoing aria-labelledby or aria-describedby traversal, process its IDREFs in the order they occur:

so, let's remove this example!

```

#### Failed Example 8

The `div` element with role `button` has an empty [accessible name][] because the `value` attribute does not count in the computation of the [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="button" value="test"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 9

This `div` element with role `button` is not [visible][], but is still [included in the accessibility tree][]. It doesn't have an [accessible name][], therefore failing the rule.

```html
<div role="button" style="position: absolute; left: -9999px" tabindex="0"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 10

The `div` element with role `link` has an empty [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="location.href='https://act-rules.github.io/'"></div>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

This `div` element is not [included in the accessibility tree][], hence its [semantic role][] is not relevant.

```html
<div role="button" style="display:none;"></div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This `div` element has an [semantic role][] of `group`, which does not require an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="group">Some content</div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

> This `button` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `none`. leading to a conflict resolved by [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][], which is not covered by this rule.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This `button` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `none`, leading to a conflict resolved by [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][], which is not covered by this rule.
```

```

#### Failed Example 9

This `div` element with role `button` is not [visible][], but is still [included in the accessibility tree][]. It doesn't have an [accessible name][], therefore failing the rule.

```html
<div role="button" style="position: absolute; left: -9999px" tabindex="0"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 10

The `div` element with role `link` has an empty [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="location.href='https://act-rules.github.io/'"></div>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

This `div` element is not [included in the accessibility tree][], hence its [semantic role][] is not relevant.

```html
<div role="button" style="display:none;"></div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This `div` element has an [semantic role][] of `group`, which does not require an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="group">Some content</div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

This `button` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `none`. leading to a conflict resolved by [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][], which is not covered by this rule.

```html
<button role="none">submit</button>
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

---
id: gp8n89
name: ARIA required accessible name
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that WAI-ARIA accessible name is available when required.
accessibility_requirements:
  aria12:accessible_name_required:
    title: ARIA 1.2, Accessible Name Required
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: satisfied
    inapplicable: satisfied
  wcag20:1.1.1: # Non-text Content (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `img` or `image` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)

>     secondary: This success criterion is **less strict** than this rule. Unlike WCAG, which might not mandate accessible names for certain elements like table elements, this rule requires them. Consequently, some of the failed examples satisfy this success criterion.

Reviewer 4: This feels like a "related to" requirement as well. The way I read 1.3.1, it only applies if the accessible name should come from a visible label, who's relationship isn't available programmatically.

Author: Although I don't entirely agree with the interpretation, since there might be cases where something is visually clear due to the surrounding context or visual presentation of elements (e.g., a top promo banner carousel without an accessible name, but the section still requires one), I understand the rationale behind it being "related to."

Updating the secondary requirement.

  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context) (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
  wcag20:2.4.9: # Link Purpose (Link Only) (AAA)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
  wcag20:4.1.2: # Name, Role, Value (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned an ARIA role corresponding to a user interface component necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
input_aspects:
  - Accessibility Tree
  - CSS styling
  - DOM Tree
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Giacomo Petri
---

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][] and has a [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] [semantic role][] that requires an [accessible name][] either from the [author](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.2/#namefromauthor) or the [content](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.2/#namefromcontent), unless the element has a presentational [explicit semantic role][] leading to a conflict resolved by [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][].

Reviewer: I'm not sure the "presentational explicit role" exception is even needed 🤔 
Because `<img src="foo.jpg" role="none" tabindex="0" />` is pretty much bad anyway, no matter that the conflict was trigger to give the final role.
OTOH, might be worth waiting to see what others think.

Author: Hi @Jym77,

I think I'm on the same page as you. Initially, the applicability was different, with only explicit roles, and there seemed to be some rationale behind that decision.

However, upon reviewing this matter now, I agree with what you said and I've also come to realize that our definition of semantic roles might not encompass all scenarios. Take, for instance:

```
<table role="none">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Some content</th>
      <td>Some content</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
```

The `th` element inherits a presentational role, but as it stands, our current language implies (or at least seems to imply to me) that it holds a semantic role of `rowheader`, which isn't accurate (and shouldn't mandate an accessible name for this rule).

Lastly, I'm in the process of drafting three new atomic rules for the "Presentational Roles Conflict". They should be finalized soon; I'm just awaiting a response from the ARIA group regarding the last bullet point concerning the conflict of presentational roles, before presenting the PR to our group.

> This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][] and has a [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] [semantic role][] that requires an [accessible name][] either from the [author](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.2/#namefromauthor) or the [content](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.2/#namefromcontent), unless the element has a presentational [explicit semantic role][] leading to a conflict resolved by [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][].

Reviewer 4: This feels unnecessarily complex to me.
1. We don't need to mention an ARIA version here. The WAI-ARIA specifications definition has it, and that definition is used in explicit semantic role > semantic role. You've got this already
2. There are no other options besides name from author and name from content. You don't need to mention it.
3. I think we'll want to be explicit about what it means to have a required accessible name. 

```suggestion
This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][] and has a [semantic role][] that has the "Accessible Name Required: True" [characteristic][], unless the element has a [explicit][explicit semantic role] presentational role.

[characteristic]: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.2/#Properties
```

The details of how to get an accessible name, of why an element can have a semantic role that's not a presentational role can go in the background.

Author: I agree; we were discussing this matter here: https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/2190#discussion_r1621021885

Accepting your suggestion

## Expectation

Each target element has an [accessible name][] that is not empty (`""`).

## Assumptions

There are no assumptions.

## Accessibility Support

Elements with a [semantic role][] of `heading` and with no [accessible name][] seem to be consistently ignored by assistive technologies. Nonetheless, in the context of this rule, they fail since [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] mandates the presence of an [accessible name][].

The [accessible name and description computation][] suggests that if an `aria-labelledby` attribute refers to an existing but empty element, the computation should stop and return an empty name without defaulting to the next steps. Several user agents and assistive technologies chose to use the next step in the computation in this case (ultimately defaulting to the content).

## Background

Although this ARIA rule mandates authors to ensure an [accessible name][] for each [HTML or SVG element][] [included in the accessibility tree][] and possessing a [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] [semantic role][] requiring an [accessible name][], it does not automatically constitute a WCAG accessibility violation.

> For instance, consider a `search` landmark comprising a `form` element with a search label, search input, and search submit button. According to ARIA specifications, both the `search` role and the `form` role necessitate an [accessible name][]. However, adhering strictly to this rule may lead to repetitive announcements by assistive technologies like screen readers, overwhelming users. Therefore, while this might technically breach ARIA specs, it does not necessarily translate to a violation of WCAG accessibility standards.

Reviewer 4: There are some mistakes in this I think. Search doesn't require a name (searchbox does though). And while the `form` role requires an accessible name, the `form` element does not have `form` as its implicit role unless it has an accessible name, in the same way that the `img` element does not have the `img` role unless it has a name.

```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The `div` element with role `button` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="button"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This `button` element with an [implicit semantic role] of `button` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<button></button>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `div` element with role `img` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="img">
  <span aria-hidden="true">★★★★★</span>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 4

The `div` element with role `checkbox` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0"></div>
<div>I agree with terms and conditions</div>
```

#### Failed Example 5

The `dialog` role accepts an [accessible name][] only from the author and not from its content. Therefore, the `div` element with role `dialog` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="dialog" aria-modal="true" tabindex="-1">
  <h1>Terms</h1>
  <p>These are our terms.</p>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 6

The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] due to the empty `aria-label` [attribute value][].

```html

>   <div role="heading" aria-level="1" aria-label="">Terms</div>

Reviewer 4: I don't think this fails the rule. Browsers ignore empty aria-labels as far as I'm aware. The AccName spec say to do so too:

> https://w3c.github.io/accname/#comp_label
> D. AriaLabel: Otherwise, if the current node has an aria-label attribute whose value is not undefined, **not the empty string**, nor, when trimmed of whitespace, is not the empty string:

```

#### Failed Example 7

The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] given by its `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<span id="fail-heading"></span>
<div role="heading" aria-level="1" aria-labelledby="fail-heading">ACT Rules</div>

> ```

Reviewer 4: I don't really like this example either. This rule is about checking that elements have accessible names. ACT rules aren't bug trackers to ensure tools have a flawless accessible name calculation.

Author: I'm not sure I understand the point. 

I agree with the previous point (Failed Example 6), as the AccName specifications indicate that empty aria-labels should be ignored. 

However, I consider this a clear failure, since the element with the role of heading lacks an accessible name due to improper handling by the author.

---
id: gp8n89
name: ARIA required accessible name
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that WAI-ARIA accessible name is available when required.
accessibility_requirements:
  aria12:accessible_name_required:
    title: ARIA 1.2, Accessible Name Required
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: satisfied
    inapplicable: satisfied
  wcag20:1.1.1: # Non-text Content (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `img` or `image` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)

>     secondary: This success criterion is **less strict** than this rule. Unlike WCAG, which might not mandate accessible names for certain elements like table elements, this rule requires them. Consequently, some of the failed examples satisfy this success criterion.

Author: ```suggestion
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. Unlike WCAG, which might not mandate accessible names for certain elements like table elements, this rule requires them. On the other hand, there are situations where information is not visually presented and is not required by WCAG, but is still required to have an accessible name according to ARIA requirements.
```

## Expectation

Each target element has an [accessible name][] that is not empty (`""`).

## Assumptions

There are no assumptions.

## Accessibility Support

Elements with a [semantic role][] of `heading` and with no [accessible name][] seem to be consistently ignored by assistive technologies. Nonetheless, in the context of this rule, they fail since [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] mandates the presence of an [accessible name][].

The [accessible name and description computation][] suggests that if an `aria-labelledby` attribute refers to an existing but empty element, the computation should stop and return an empty name without defaulting to the next steps. Several user agents and assistive technologies chose to use the next step in the computation in this case (ultimately defaulting to the content).

## Background

Although this ARIA rule mandates authors to ensure an [accessible name][] for each [HTML or SVG element][] [included in the accessibility tree][] and possessing a [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] [semantic role][] requiring an [accessible name][], it does not automatically constitute a WCAG accessibility violation.

> For instance, consider a `search` landmark comprising a `form` element with a search label, search input, and search submit button. According to ARIA specifications, both the `search` role and the `form` role necessitate an [accessible name][]. However, adhering strictly to this rule may lead to repetitive announcements by assistive technologies like screen readers, overwhelming users. Therefore, while this might technically breach ARIA specs, it does not necessarily translate to a violation of WCAG accessibility standards.

Author: ```suggestion
For instance, consider a `search` landmark comprising an element with the `form` role, a search label, a search input, and a search submit button. According to ARIA specifications, the `searchbox` role necessitate an [accessible name][]. However, adhering strictly to this rule may lead to repetitive announcements by assistive technologies like screen readers, overwhelming users. Therefore, while this might technically breach ARIA specs, it does not necessarily translate to a violation of WCAG accessibility standards.
```

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The `div` element with role `button` has an [accessible name][] provided by its content.

```html
<div role="button" tabindex="0">Submit</div>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The `div` element with role `img` has an [accessible name][] provided by the `aria-label` [attribute value][].

```html
<div role="img" aria-label="Rating: 5 out of 5 stars">
  <span aria-hidden="true">★★★★★</span>
</div>
```

#### Passed Example 3

The `div` element with role `checkbox` has an [accessible name][] provided thanks to the `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<div role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0" aria-labelledby="passed-example-3"></div>
<div id="passed-example-3">I agree with terms and conditions</div>
```

#### Passed Example 4

The `div` element with role `dialog` has an [accessible name][] provided by the `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<div role="dialog" aria-modal="true" tabindex="-1" aria-labelledby="passed-example-4">
  <h1 id="passed-example-4">Terms</h1>
  <p>These are our terms.</p>
</div>
```

#### Passed Example 5

The `div` element with role `heading` has an [accessible name][] provided by its content.

```html

>   <h1>Terms</h1>

Author: ```suggestion
  <div role="heading" aria-level="1">Terms</div>
```

```html
<div role="button"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The `div` element with role `img` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="img">
  <span aria-hidden="true">★★★★★</span>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `div` element with role `checkbox` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0"></div>
<div>I agree with terms and conditions</div>
```

#### Failed Example 4

The `dialog` role accepts an [accessible name][] only from the author and not from its content. Therefore, the `div` element with role `dialog` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="dialog" aria-modal="true" tabindex="-1">
  <h1>Terms</h1>
  <p>These are our terms.</p>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 5

The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] due to the empty `aria-label` [attribute value][].

```html
  <div role="heading" aria-level="1" aria-label="">Terms</div>
```

#### Failed Example 6

The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] given by its `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<span id="failed-example-3"></span>

> <h1 aria-labelledby="failed-example-3">ACT Rules</h1>

Author: ```suggestion
<div role="heading" aria-level="1" aria-labelledby="failed-example-3">ACT Rules</div>
```

```html
<div role="dialog" aria-modal="true" tabindex="-1">
  <h1>Terms</h1>
  <p>These are our terms.</p>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 6

> The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] due to the empty `aria-label` [attribute value][].
> 
> ```html
>   <div role="heading" aria-level="1" aria-label="">Terms</div>

Author: ```suggestion
The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] due to the `display: none` CSS property set to its content.

```html
  <div role="heading" aria-level="1"><span style="display: none">Terms</span></div>
```

```

#### Failed Example 9

This `div` element with role `button` is not [visible][], but is still [included in the accessibility tree][]. It doesn't have an [accessible name][], therefore failing the rule.

```html
<div role="button" style="position: absolute; left: -9999px" tabindex="0"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 10

The `div` element with role `link` has an empty [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="location.href='https://act-rules.github.io/'"></div>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

This `div` element is not [included in the accessibility tree][], hence its [semantic role][] is not relevant.

```html
<div role="button" style="display:none;"></div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This `div` element has an [semantic role][] of `group`, which does not require an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="group">Some content</div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

This `button` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `none`. leading to a conflict resolved by [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][], which is not covered by this rule.

```html
<button role="none">submit</button>
```

> <!-- Boundary example for future improvement -->
> <!--#### Inapplicable Example 5
> 
> This `button` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `none`. Although the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] requires the author to provide an [accessible name][], the [explicit semantic role][] does not require an [accessible name][] for this rule.
> 
> ```html
> <button role="none"></button>
> ```-->

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
id: gp8n89
name: ARIA required accessible name
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that WAI-ARIA accessible name is available when required.
accessibility_requirements:

>   aria12:accessible_name_required:

Reviewer: IIrc, the second part is supposed to be the `id` of an element in the document so we can link to it (https://github.com/act-rules/act-tools/blob/cc2208ac0df7d53748d977cc7813887cbbf6a0fc/src/act/get-accessibility-requirement.ts and https://github.com/act-rules/act-tools/blob/cc2208ac0df7d53748d977cc7813887cbbf6a0fc/src/rule-transform/rule-content/get-requirements-map.ts), which this is not.
OTOH it doesn't look like there actually is a single place where this is defined 🤔

Author: @Jym77, exactly. Each role has its own unique requirements, which is why I've given it a general label... I'm uncertain about the best approach to address this.

Reviewer: 🤔 It seems the WAI website currently doesn't show anything for non-WCAG requirements 🙈 ([example](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/6a7281/proposed/#accessibility-requirements-mapping)), where the old site did ([example](https://act-rules.github.io/rules/6a7281))…

Not sure why it went away, nor what we want to do. @carlosapaduarte do you have an input on that?

    title: ARIA 1.2, Accessible Name Required
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: satisfied
    inapplicable: satisfied

>   wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)

Reviewer: 1.1.1 should also be a secondary, since `img` role has name required.

    secondary: This success criterion is **less strict** than this rule. Unlike WCAG, which might not mandate accessible names for certain elements like table elements, this rule requires them. Consequently, some of the failed examples satisfy this success criterion.
  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context) (A)

>     secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that both passed and failed overlap with this success criterion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
```

  wcag20:2.4.9: # Link Purpose (Link Only) (AAA)

>     secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that both passed and failed overlap with this success criterion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned the ARIA role of `link` necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
```

  wcag20:4.1.2: # Name, Role, Value (A)

>     secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned an ARIA role corresponding to a user interface component necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that both passed and failed overlap with this success criterion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    secondary: This success criterion is **related** to this rule. This is because elements assigned an ARIA role corresponding to a user interface component necessitate an accessible name according to WCAG standards. Some of the examples that either pass or fail overlap with this success criterion.
```

input_aspects:
  - Accessibility Tree
  - CSS styling
  - DOM Tree

>   - ARIA

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   - ARIA

Reviewer: I don't think we have an ARIA aspect. This is more or less part of the Accessibility tree aspect.

acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Giacomo Petri
---

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any [HTML or SVG element][] that is [included in the accessibility tree][] and has a [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] [explicit semantic role][] that requires an [accessible name][] either from the [author](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.2/#namefromauthor) or the [content](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.2/#namefromcontent), unless the element [implicit semantic role][] matches its [explicit semantic role][].

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the "no implicit" exception in that case.
It makes some sense for the `aria-*` attribute because native elements do some magic to auto set them up (e.g. `aria-checked` is set by `checked`, and `aria-expanded` can be some deep magic).
However in that case, there is no magic to set up the name, so a native `<img>` without a name is (also) an ARIA author eror and can be flagged by this rule.

Author: @Jym77, the rationale behind this is that certain roles necessitate an accessible name per ARIA requirements, even if it's not mandated by WCAG requirements. For instance, consider a search form: there's a search landmark wrapping a form (which needs an accessible name per ARIA specs), followed by a Search label, a search input with its associated label, and finally, a search submit button.

When using a screen reader, we'd hear "search" multiple times, which seems more like an error than an accessibility feature. This holds true for many roles. That's why I've specifically excluded implicit roles from the applicability.

It's worth noting that during today's ARIA meeting, @scottaohara brought up this topic, and it appears there's consensus on reviewing each role that requires an accessible name to determine whether it's always necessary or not (minutes available: https://www.w3.org/2024/05/23-aria-minutes.html#t06).

I'd be more than willing to remove the exception with this change, but until then, I'm not comfortable doing so.

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure as to why this relates to implicit roles 🤔

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure as to why this relates to implicit roles 🤔 
If the search landmark wrapping a search field, or any of the other "bad" cases discussed there, is built with `<div role="…">` all over the place, we end up in the exact same situation, don't we?

In any case, it seems to be a case where something is currently an ARIA error without being a WCAG one (nor an accessibility issue). Which does require deciding between flagging ARIA error, or only flagging accessibility issues…

Even if ARIA group is working on it, I guess this won't happen before ARIA 1.3, so we should find a solution without it.

Whatever we decide, I think this is worth a Background note to explain why the rule is shaped that way, or the limits of its use.

Author: In my view, authors have the ability to utilize native semantic elements, such as a search element (`<search>`). If they do, even though it inherently carries the role of "search" as per ARIA, they may not be consciously utilizing ARIA. Conversely, if they consciously assign the role of search (`role="search"`), they are cognizant of ARIA requirements, which mandate the provision of an accessible name.

I'm not asserting that, in its current state, it does not constitute an ARIA violation (indeed it is), though it may not necessarily result in an accessibility issue. My concern lies in the potential confusion that may arise for those interpreting the rule if authors are required to adhere to this guideline for implicit roles as well.

However, again, I do acknowledge that, according to ARIA specs, it is indeed a requirement. Furthermore, once this concern is addressed by ARIA, there will no longer be a differentiation between implicit and explicit roles.

Therefore, I am inclined to remove the exception and update the background notes accordingly.

Author: Side note: there were already a background note about that :D

Author: @Jym77, I've made several updates:
- Expanded the applicability criteria to encompass any role, whether implicit or explicit.
- Adjusted the applicability to exclude conflicts with presentational roles. Previously, only explicit roles requiring acc name were included, so "none" and "presentation" were not part of the equation, excluding automatically presentational role conflicts. Now, considering the role of the element, also presentational roles causing conflicts apply, therefore I had to exclude them.
- Revised the background notes to address the discussed topic and emphasize that violating this ARIA rule does not necessarily breach WCAG standards.
- Enhanced the examples by incorporating implicit roles for both passed and failed examples, and removed implicit roles from inapplicable examples.
- Included a "non-failing" example into the inapplicable example of resolving presentational role conflicts, to clarify that this scenario is out of scope for this rule.

The [accessible name and description computation][] suggests that if an `aria-labelledby` attribute refers to an existing but empty element, the computation should stop and return an empty name without defaulting to the next steps. Several user agents and assistive technologies chose to use the next step in the computation in this case (ultimately defaulting to the content).

## Background

The applicability of this rule is limited to elements that have an [explicit semantic role][] that is not identical to their [implicit semantic role][]. Both [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2] and [ARIA in HTML](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aria/#docconformance) discourage authors from using ARIA when the host language provides a feature with equivalent role semantics and values.

An example of an element that has an [implicit semantic role][] that is identical to its [explicit semantic role][] is a `<table role="table">` element. These elements are not applicable because they have extra requirements and should thus be checked separately.

> Elements subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] are not covered by this rule, since their [explicit semantic role][] of `none` or `presentation` do not require an accessible name. However, if the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] is invoked, although the rule doesn't apply, an accessible name might still be necessary.

Reviewer: I think this can be phrased a bit differently, hinting that triggering the conflict should be checked separately (and I do believe we should have a rule "conflict is not triggered", especially since it is [an explicit author error in ARIA 1.3](https://w3c.github.io/aria/#conflict_resolution_presentation_none)

Author: Replaced

> Elements subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] are not covered by this rule, since their [explicit semantic role][] of `none` or `presentation` do not require an accessible name. However, if the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] is invoked, although the rule doesn't apply, an accessible name might still be necessary.

with 

> Elements subjected to the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] are not part of this rule and must be tested separately. 

If we choose to proceed with eliminating the "implicit role" exception from the applicability and simply refer to it as "element role," perhaps it's not even necessary.

### Bibliography

- [WAI-ARIA 1.2][wai-aria 1.2]
- [ARIA in HTML](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aria/#docconformance)
- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1: Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/name-role-value)

> - [Understanding Success Criterion 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/name-role-value)

Reviewer: This should include the other secondary requirements?

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The `div` element with role `button` has an [accessible name][] provided by its content.

```html
<div role="button" tabindex="0">Submit</div>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The `div` element with role `img` has an [accessible name][] provided by the `aria-label` [attribute value][].

```html
<div role="img" aria-label="Rating: 5 out of 5 stars">
  <span aria-hidden="true">★★★★★</span>
</div>
```

#### Passed Example 3

The `div` element with role `checkbox` has an [accessible name][] provided thanks to the `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<div role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0" aria-labelledby="passed-example-3"></div>

> <div id="passed-example-3">I agree with terms and conditions</div>

Reviewer: I'd recommend against using `passed-example-3` as an `id` to limit the changes needed if we add more examples.
(also applies to some other examples)

```

#### Passed Example 4

The `div` element with role `dialog` has an [accessible name][] provided by the `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<div role="dialog" aria-modal="true" tabindex="-1" aria-labelledby="passed-example-4">
  <h1 id="passed-example-4">Terms</h1>
  <p>These are our terms.</p>
</div>
```

#### Passed Example 5

The `div` element with role `heading` has an [accessible name][] provided by its content.

```html
  <h1>Terms</h1>

> ```

Reviewer: This is a native heading (which I think the rule can check nonetheless, but doesn't match the current wording).

Author: I missed it. The description is accurate "The `div` element with role `heading` has an [accessible name][] provided by its content." but the code doesn't reflect it. Updating the code

#### Passed Example 6

This `div` element with role `heading` is not [visible][], but is still [included in the accessibility tree][]. It has a non-empty [accessible name][] provided by its content.

```html
<div role="heading" aria-level="1" style="position: absolute; left: -9999px">ACT rules</div>
```

#### Passed Example 7

The `div` element with role `link` has an [accessible name][] provided by its content.

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="location.href='https://act-rules.github.io/'">ACT Rules</div>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The `div` element with role `button` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="button"></div>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The `div` element with role `img` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="img">
  <span aria-hidden="true">★★★★★</span>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `div` element with role `checkbox` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0"></div>
<div>I agree with terms and conditions</div>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> The `dialog` role accept an [accessible name][] only from the author and not from its content. Therefore, the `div` element with role `dialog` doesn't have an [accessible name][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dialog` role accepts an [accessible name][] only from the author and not from its content. Therefore, the `div` element with role `dialog` doesn't have an [accessible name][].
```

```html
<div role="dialog" aria-modal="true" tabindex="-1">
  <h1>Terms</h1>
  <p>These are our terms.</p>
</div>
```

#### Failed Example 5

> The `div` element with role `heading` doesn't an [accessible name][] due to the empty `aria-label` [attribute value][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] due to the empty `aria-label` [attribute value][].
```

```html
  <div role="heading" aria-level="1" aria-label="">Terms</div>
```

#### Failed Example 6

The `div` element with role `heading` has an empty [accessible name][] given by its `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<span id="failed-example-3"></span>

> <h1 aria-labelledby="failed-example-3">ACT Rules</h1>

Reviewer: Also a native heading.

This `div` element is not [included in the accessibility tree][], hence its [explicit semantic role][] is not relevant.

```html
<div role="button" style="display:none;"></div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

This `table` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `table`, that is identical to its [implicit semantic role][].

```html
<table role="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Table Header 1</th>
      <th>Table Header 2</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Some content 1</td>
      <td>Some content 2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Some content 3</td>
      <td>Some content 4</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 4

This `div` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `group`, which does not require an [accessible name][].

```html
<div role="group">Some content</div>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 5

This `button` element has an [explicit semantic role][] of `none`. Although the [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][] requires the author to provide an [accessible name][], the [explicit semantic role][] does not require an [accessible name][] for this rule.

```html
<button role="none"></button>

> ```

Reviewer: Sadly, we can't have that as an Inapplicable example since these need to **not fail** the requirement, and this does.

That would be well suited for "boundary examples", though (#2185).

Author: Marked as comment so we don't forget about it if #2185 will be appoved.
